docs/cli/supergloo_install_istio.md, before:

---
title: "supergloo install istio"
weight: 5
---
## supergloo install istio

install the Istio control plane

### Synopsis

install the Istio control plane

```
supergloo install istio [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --auto-inject                     enable auto-injection? (default true)
      --egress                          enable egress gateway?
      --grafana                         add grafana to the install?
  -h, --help                            help for istio
      --ingress                         enable ingress gateway?
      --installation-namespace string   which namespace to install Istio into? (default "istio-system")
      --jaeger                          add jaeger to the install?
      --mtls                            enable mtls? (default true)
      --prometheus                      add prometheus to the install?
      --smi-install                     add the SMI adapter to the install?
      --version string                  version of istio to install? available: [1.0.3 1.0.5 1.0.6] (default "1.0.6")
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -i, --interactive        run in interactive mode
      --name string        name for the resource
      --namespace string   namespace for the resource (default "supergloo-system")
  -o, --output string      output format: (yaml, json, table)
      --update             update an existing install?
```

### SEE ALSO

* [supergloo install](../supergloo_install)	 - install a service mesh using Supergloo

Commit message:

fix smi timeout install (#461)
* fix smi timeout install
* fix flag name
* regen

docs/cli/supergloo_install_istio.md, after:

---
title: "supergloo install istio"
weight: 5
---
## supergloo install istio

install the Istio control plane

### Synopsis

install the Istio control plane

```
supergloo install istio [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --auto-inject                     enable auto-injection? (default true)
      --egress                          enable egress gateway?
      --grafana                         add grafana to the install?
  -h, --help                            help for istio
      --ingress                         enable ingress gateway?
      --installation-namespace string   which namespace to install Istio into? (default "istio-system")
      --jaeger                          add jaeger to the install?
      --mtls                            enable mtls? (default true)
      --prometheus                      add prometheus to the install?
      --smi-install                     add the SMI adapter to the install?
      --version string                  version of istio to install? available: [1.0.3 1.0.5 1.0.6] (default "1.0.6")
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -i, --interactive        run in interactive mode
      --name string        name for the resource
      --namespace string   namespace for the resource (default "supergloo-system")
  -o, --output string      output format: (yaml, json, table)
      --timeout duration   maximum time to wait for a mesh installation to complete (default 5m0s)
      --update             update an existing install?
```

### SEE ALSO

* [supergloo install](../supergloo_install)	 - install a service mesh using Supergloo
