docs/cli/supergloo_apply_routingrule.md, before:

---
title: "supergloo apply routingrule"
weight: 5
---
## supergloo apply routingrule

Apply a routing rule to one or more meshes.

### Synopsis


Each Routing Rule applies an HTTP routing feature to a mesh.

Routing rules implement the following semantics:

RULE:
  FOR all HTTP Requests:
  - FROM these **source pods**
  - TO these **destination pods**
  - MATCHING these **request matchers**
  APPLY this rule


### Options

```
      --dest-labels MapStringStringValue       apply this rule to requests sent to pods with these labels. format must be KEY=VALUE (default [])
      --dest-namespaces strings                apply this rule to requests sent to pods in these namespaces
      --dest-upstreams ResourceRefsValue       apply this rule to requests sent to these upstreams. format must be <NAMESPACE>.<NAME>. (default [])
  -h, --help                                   help for routingrule
      --name string                            name for the resource
      --namespace string                       namespace for the resource (default "supergloo-system")
  -o, --output string                          output format: (yaml, json, table)
      --request-matcher RequestMatchersValue   json-formatted string which can be parsed as a RequestMatcher type, e.g. {"path_prefix":"/users","path_exact":"","path_regex":"","methods":["GET"],"header_matchers":{"x-custom-header":"bar"}} (default [])
      --source-labels MapStringStringValue     apply this rule to requests originating from pods with these labels. format must be KEY=VALUE (default [])
      --source-namespaces strings              apply this rule to requests originating from pods in these namespaces
      --source-upstreams ResourceRefsValue     apply this rule to requests originating from these upstreams. format must be <NAMESPACE>.<NAME>. (default [])
      --target-mesh ResourceRefValue           select the target mesh or mesh group to which to apply this rule. format must be NAMESPACE.NAME (default { })
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -i, --interactive   use interactive mode
```

### SEE ALSO

* [supergloo apply](../supergloo_apply)	 - apply a rule to a mesh
* [supergloo apply routingrule trafficshifting](../supergloo_apply_routingrule_trafficshifting)	 - ts

Commit message:

add kubeyaml flag for printing kube yaml
Signed-off-by: scott weiss <sdw35@cornell.edu>

docs/cli/supergloo_apply_routingrule.md, after:

---
title: "supergloo apply routingrule"
weight: 5
---
## supergloo apply routingrule

Apply a routing rule to one or more meshes.

### Synopsis


Each Routing Rule applies an HTTP routing feature to a mesh.

Routing rules implement the following semantics:

RULE:
  FOR all HTTP Requests:
  - FROM these **source pods**
  - TO these **destination pods**
  - MATCHING these **request matchers**
  APPLY this rule


### Options

```
      --dest-labels MapStringStringValue       apply this rule to requests sent to pods with these labels. format must be KEY=VALUE (default [])
      --dest-namespaces strings                apply this rule to requests sent to pods in these namespaces
      --dest-upstreams ResourceRefsValue       apply this rule to requests sent to these upstreams. format must be <NAMESPACE>.<NAME>. (default [])
  -h, --help                                   help for routingrule
      --kubeyaml                               if true, this command will print the yaml used to create a kubernetes resource rather than directly trying to create/apply the resource
      --name string                            name for the resource
      --namespace string                       namespace for the resource (default "supergloo-system")
  -o, --output string                          output format: (yaml, json, table)
      --request-matcher RequestMatchersValue   json-formatted string which can be parsed as a RequestMatcher type, e.g. {"path_prefix":"/users","path_exact":"","path_regex":"","methods":["GET"],"header_matchers":{"x-custom-header":"bar"}} (default [])
      --source-labels MapStringStringValue     apply this rule to requests originating from pods with these labels. format must be KEY=VALUE (default [])
      --source-namespaces strings              apply this rule to requests originating from pods in these namespaces
      --source-upstreams ResourceRefsValue     apply this rule to requests originating from these upstreams. format must be <NAMESPACE>.<NAME>. (default [])
      --target-mesh ResourceRefValue           select the target mesh or mesh group to which to apply this rule. format must be NAMESPACE.NAME (default { })
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -i, --interactive   use interactive mode
```

### SEE ALSO

* [supergloo apply](../supergloo_apply)	 - apply a rule to a mesh
* [supergloo apply routingrule trafficshifting](../supergloo_apply_routingrule_trafficshifting)	 - ts
