docs/api/github.com/solo-io/mesh-projects/api/v1/ingress.proto.sk.md, before:


---
title: "ingress.proto"
weight: 5
---

<!-- Code generated by solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->


### Package: `zephyr.solo.io` 
#### Types:


- [MeshIngress](#meshingress) **Top-Level Resource**
  



##### Source File: [github.com/solo-io/mesh-projects/api/v1/ingress.proto](https://github.com/solo-io/mesh-projects/blob/master/api/v1/ingress.proto)





---
### MeshIngress

 
MeshIngress represents a managed ingress (edge router) which can proxy connections
for services in a Mesh managed by SuperGloo

```yaml
"status": .core.solo.io.Status
"metadata": .core.solo.io.Metadata
"address": string
"port": int

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `status` | [.core.solo.io.Status](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/status.proto.sk/#status) | Status indicates the validation status of this resource. Status is read-only by clients, and set by supergloo during validation. |  |
| `metadata` | [.core.solo.io.Metadata](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/metadata.proto.sk/#metadata) | Metadata contains the object metadata for this resource. |  |
| `address` | `string` | Public address by which this entry point can be reached Must be either DNS or a valid IP. |  |
| `port` | `int` |  |  |





<!-- Start of HubSpot Embed Code -->
<script type="text/javascript" id="hs-script-loader" async defer src="//js.hs-scripts.com/5130874.js"></script>
<!-- End of HubSpot Embed Code -->

Commit message:

Gloo url discovery (#39)
* initial commit
* clientset
* changes to crd, as well as url gathering from gloo
* changelog
* fixed test
* reconcile all
* code gen

docs/api/github.com/solo-io/mesh-projects/api/v1/ingress.proto.sk.md, after:


---
title: "ingress.proto"
weight: 5
---

<!-- Code generated by solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->


### Package: `zephyr.solo.io` 
#### Types:


- [MeshIngress](#meshingress) **Top-Level Resource**
- [GlooIngress](#glooingress)
  



##### Source File: [github.com/solo-io/mesh-projects/api/v1/ingress.proto](https://github.com/solo-io/mesh-projects/blob/master/api/v1/ingress.proto)





---
### MeshIngress

 
MeshIngress represents a managed ingress (edge router) which can proxy connections
for services in a Mesh managed by SuperGloo

```yaml
"status": .core.solo.io.Status
"metadata": .core.solo.io.Metadata
"gloo": .zephyr.solo.io.MeshIngress.GlooIngress

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `status` | [.core.solo.io.Status](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/status.proto.sk/#status) | Status indicates the validation status of this resource. Status is read-only by clients, and set by supergloo during validation. |  |
| `metadata` | [.core.solo.io.Metadata](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/metadata.proto.sk/#metadata) | Metadata contains the object metadata for this resource. |  |
| `gloo` | [.zephyr.solo.io.MeshIngress.GlooIngress](../ingress.proto.sk/#glooingress) |  |  |




---
### GlooIngress



```yaml
"namespace": string
"serviceName": string
"port": string

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `namespace` | `string` | namespace which the ingress is located in. |  |
| `serviceName` | `string` |  |  |
| `port` | `string` | name of port which will be used for mesh traffic. |  |





<!-- Start of HubSpot Embed Code -->
<script type="text/javascript" id="hs-script-loader" async defer src="//js.hs-scripts.com/5130874.js"></script>
<!-- End of HubSpot Embed Code -->
