docs/v1/github.com/solo-io/supergloo/api/v1/mesh.proto.sk.md, before:


---
title: "mesh.proto"
weight: 5
---

<!-- Code generated by solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->


### Package: `supergloo.solo.io` 
##### Types:


- [Mesh](#Mesh) **Top-Level Resource**
- [IstioMesh](#IstioMesh)
- [MtlsConfig](#MtlsConfig)
- [MeshGroup](#MeshGroup) **Top-Level Resource**
  



##### Source File: [github.com/solo-io/supergloo/api/v1/mesh.proto](https://github.com/solo-io/supergloo/blob/master/api/v1/mesh.proto)





---
### <a name="Mesh">Mesh</a>

 
Meshes represent a currently registered service mesh.

```yaml
"status": .core.solo.io.Status
"metadata": .core.solo.io.Metadata
"istio": .supergloo.solo.io.IstioMesh
"mtlsConfig": .supergloo.solo.io.MtlsConfig

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `status` | [.core.solo.io.Status](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/status.proto.sk#Status) | Status indicates the validation status of this resource. Status is read-only by clients, and set by supergloo during validation |  |
| `metadata` | [.core.solo.io.Metadata](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/metadata.proto.sk#Metadata) | Metadata contains the object metadata for this resource |  |
| `istio` | [.supergloo.solo.io.IstioMesh](../mesh.proto.sk#IstioMesh) |  |  |
| `mtlsConfig` | [.supergloo.solo.io.MtlsConfig](../mesh.proto.sk#MtlsConfig) | mtls config specifies configuration options for enabling mutual tls between pods in this mesh |  |




---
### <a name="IstioMesh">IstioMesh</a>

 
Mesh object representing istio

```yaml
"installationNamespace": string

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `installationNamespace` | `string` | where the istio control plane has been installed |  |




---
### <a name="MtlsConfig">MtlsConfig</a>

 
the encryption configuration that will be applied by the role

```yaml
"mtlsEnabled": bool
"rootCertificate": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `mtlsEnabled` | `bool` | whether or not mutual TLS should be enabled between pods in this mesh |  |
| `rootCertificate` | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/ref.proto.sk#ResourceRef) | if set, rootCertificate will override the root certificate used by the mesh to encrypt mtls connections. The structure of the secret must be a standard kubernetes TLS secret such as can be created via `kubectl create secret tls` if mtlsEnabled is false, this field is ignored If deploying to Consul, Consul Connect requires that the cert and key are generated using ec, not rsa. |  |




---
### <a name="MeshGroup">MeshGroup</a>



```yaml
"status": .core.solo.io.Status
"metadata": .core.solo.io.Metadata
"meshes": []core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `status` | [.core.solo.io.Status](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/status.proto.sk#Status) | Status indicates the validation status of this resource. Status is read-only by clients, and set by supergloo during validation |  |
| `metadata` | [.core.solo.io.Metadata](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/metadata.proto.sk#Metadata) | Metadata contains the object metadata for this resource |  |
| `meshes` | [[]core.solo.io.ResourceRef](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/ref.proto.sk#ResourceRef) | the meshes contained in this group |  |





<!-- Start of HubSpot Embed Code -->
<script type="text/javascript" id="hs-script-loader" async defer src="//js.hs-scripts.com/5130874.js"></script>
<!-- End of HubSpot Embed Code -->

Commit message:

add api for prometheus config syncer
Signed-off-by: scott weiss <sdw35@cornell.edu>

docs/v1/github.com/solo-io/supergloo/api/v1/mesh.proto.sk.md, after:


---
title: "mesh.proto"
weight: 5
---

<!-- Code generated by solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->


### Package: `supergloo.solo.io` 
##### Types:


- [Mesh](#Mesh) **Top-Level Resource**
- [IstioMesh](#IstioMesh)
- [MtlsConfig](#MtlsConfig)
- [MonitoringConfig](#MonitoringConfig)
- [MeshGroup](#MeshGroup) **Top-Level Resource**
  



##### Source File: [github.com/solo-io/supergloo/api/v1/mesh.proto](https://github.com/solo-io/supergloo/blob/master/api/v1/mesh.proto)





---
### <a name="Mesh">Mesh</a>

 
Meshes represent a currently registered service mesh.

```yaml
"status": .core.solo.io.Status
"metadata": .core.solo.io.Metadata
"istio": .supergloo.solo.io.IstioMesh
"mtlsConfig": .supergloo.solo.io.MtlsConfig
"monitoringConfig": .supergloo.solo.io.MonitoringConfig

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `status` | [.core.solo.io.Status](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/status.proto.sk#Status) | Status indicates the validation status of this resource. Status is read-only by clients, and set by supergloo during validation |  |
| `metadata` | [.core.solo.io.Metadata](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/metadata.proto.sk#Metadata) | Metadata contains the object metadata for this resource |  |
| `istio` | [.supergloo.solo.io.IstioMesh](../mesh.proto.sk#IstioMesh) |  |  |
| `mtlsConfig` | [.supergloo.solo.io.MtlsConfig](../mesh.proto.sk#MtlsConfig) | mtls config specifies configuration options for enabling mutual tls between pods in this mesh |  |
| `monitoringConfig` | [.supergloo.solo.io.MonitoringConfig](../mesh.proto.sk#MonitoringConfig) | configuration for propagating stats and metrics from mesh controllers and sidecars to a centralized datastore such as prometheus |  |




---
### <a name="IstioMesh">IstioMesh</a>

 
Mesh object representing an installed Istio control plane

```yaml
"installationNamespace": string

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `installationNamespace` | `string` | where the istio control plane has been installed |  |




---
### <a name="MtlsConfig">MtlsConfig</a>

 
the encryption configuration that will be applied by the role

```yaml
"mtlsEnabled": bool
"rootCertificate": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `mtlsEnabled` | `bool` | whether or not mutual TLS should be enabled between pods in this mesh |  |
| `rootCertificate` | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/ref.proto.sk#ResourceRef) | if set, rootCertificate will override the root certificate used by the mesh to encrypt mtls connections. The structure of the secret must be a standard kubernetes TLS secret such as can be created via `kubectl create secret tls` if mtlsEnabled is false, this field is ignored If deploying to Consul, Consul Connect requires that the cert and key are generated using ec, not rsa. |  |




---
### <a name="MonitoringConfig">MonitoringConfig</a>

 
Contains configuration options for monitoring a mesh
Currently MonitoringConfig only contains options for configuring
an in-cluster Prometheus instance to scrape a mesh for metrics

```yaml
"prometheusConfigmap": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `prometheusConfigmap` | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/ref.proto.sk#ResourceRef) | indicates to supergloo that metrics should be propagated to an instance of prometheus set this value to the NAMESPACE.NAME of the configmap used to configure prometheus. assumes that the configmap contains a key named `prometheus.yml` whose value is the prometheus yaml config as an inline string |  |




---
### <a name="MeshGroup">MeshGroup</a>



```yaml
"status": .core.solo.io.Status
"metadata": .core.solo.io.Metadata
"meshes": []core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| `status` | [.core.solo.io.Status](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/status.proto.sk#Status) | Status indicates the validation status of this resource. Status is read-only by clients, and set by supergloo during validation |  |
| `metadata` | [.core.solo.io.Metadata](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/metadata.proto.sk#Metadata) | Metadata contains the object metadata for this resource |  |
| `meshes` | [[]core.solo.io.ResourceRef](../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/ref.proto.sk#ResourceRef) | the meshes contained in this group |  |





<!-- Start of HubSpot Embed Code -->
<script type="text/javascript" id="hs-script-loader" async defer src="//js.hs-scripts.com/5130874.js"></script>
<!-- End of HubSpot Embed Code -->
