docs/content/guides/discovery_intro.md, before:

---
title: Mesh Discovery
menuTitle: Mesh Discovery
weight: 20
---

Service Mesh Hub can automatically discover service mesh installations on registered clusters using control plane and sidecar discovery, as well as workloads and services exposed through the service mesh.

In this guide we will learn about the four main discovery capabilities in the context of Kubernetes as the compute platform:

1. **Kubernetes Clusters**
    - Representation of a cluster that Service Mesh Hub is aware of and is authorized to talk to its Kubernetes API server
    - *note*: this resource is created by `meshctl` at cluster registration time
2. **Meshes**
    - Representation of a service mesh control plane that has been discovered 
3. **Workloads**
    - Representation of a pod that is a member of a service mesh; this is often determined by the presence of an injected proxy sidecar
4. **TrafficTargets**
    - Representation of a Kubernetes service that is backed by Workload pods, e.g. pods that are a member of the service mesh


## Before you begin
To illustrate these concepts, we will assume that:

* Service Mesh Hub is [installed and running on the `mgmt-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/#install-service-mesh-hub" %}})
* Istio is [installed on both the `mgmt-cluster` and `remote-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/installing_istio" %}})
* Both `mgmt-cluster` and `remote-cluster` clusters are [registered with Service Mesh Hub]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#two-registered-clusters" %}})
* The `bookinfo` app is [installed into the two clusters]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#bookinfo-deployed-on-two-clusters" %}})


{{% notice note %}}
Be sure to review the assumptions and satisfy the pre-requisites from the [Guides]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides" %}}) top-level document.
{{% /notice %}}

### Discover Kubernetes Clusters

Ensure that your `kubeconfig` has the correct context set as its `currentContext`:

```shell
MGMT_CONTEXT=your_management_plane_context
REMOTE_CONTEXT=your_remote_context
kubectl config use-context $MGMT_CONTEXT
```

Validate that the cluster have been registered by checking for `KubernetesClusters` custom resources:

```shell
kubectl get kubernetesclusters -n service-mesh-hub
```

```shell
NAME                 AGE
mgmt-cluster         23h
remote-cluster       23h
```

### Discover Meshes

Check to see that Istio has been discovered:

```shell
meshctl describe mesh
```

```
+-----------------------------+----------------+-------------------+
|           METADATA          | VIRTUAL MESHES | FAILOVER SERVICES |
+-----------------------------+----------------+-------------------+
| Namespace: istio-system     |                |                   |
| Cluster: mgmt-cluster       |                |                   |
| Type: istio                 |                |                   |
| Version: 1.5.2              |                |                   |
|                             |                |                   |
+-----------------------------+----------------+-------------------+
| Namespace: istio-system     |                |                   |
| Cluster: remote-cluster     |                |                   |
| Type: istio                 |                |                   |
| Version: 1.5.2              |                |                   |
|                             |                |                   |
+-----------------------------+----------------+-------------------+
```

We can print it in YAML form to see all the information we discovered:

```shell
kubectl -n service-mesh-hub get mesh istiod-istio-system-remote-cluster -oyaml
```

(snipped for brevity)

{{< highlight yaml >}}
apiVersion: discovery.smh.solo.io/v1alpha2
kind: Mesh
metadata:  
  ... 
  labels:
    cluster.discovery.smh.solo.io: remote-cluster
    cluster.multicluster.solo.io: ""
    owner.discovery.smh.solo.io: service-mesh-hub
  name: istiod-istio-system-remote-cluster
  namespace: service-mesh-hub
  resourceVersion: "2649"
  selfLink: /apis/discovery.smh.solo.io/v1alpha2/namespaces/service-mesh-hub/meshes/istiod-istio-system-remote-cluster
  uid: e7dfed16-7f29-40ac-896c-db24a7c05321
spec:
  agentInfo:
    agentNamespace: service-mesh-hub
  istio:
    citadelInfo:
      citadelServiceAccount: istio-pilot-service-account
      trustDomain: cluster.local
    ingressGateways:
    - externalAddress: 172.18.0.3
      externalTlsPort: 32000
      tlsContainerPort: 15443
      workloadLabels:
        istio: ingressgateway
    installation:
      cluster: remote-cluster
      namespace: istio-system
      podLabels:
        istio: pilot
      version: 1.5.2
status:
  observedGeneration: "1"

{{< /highlight >}}

### Discover Workloads

Check to see that the `bookinfo` pods have been correctly identified as Workloads:

```shell
kubectl -n service-mesh-hub get workloads
```

```
NAME                                                            AGE
NAME                                                            AGE
details-v1-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster-deployment                 3m54s
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-mgmt-cluster-deployment   23h
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-remote-cluster-deployment     23h
productpage-v1-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster-deployment             3m54s
ratings-v1-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster-deployment                 3m53s
ratings-v1-bookinfo-remote-cluster-deployment                   3m25s
reviews-v1-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster-deployment                 3m53s
reviews-v2-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster-deployment                 3m53s
reviews-v3-bookinfo-remote-cluster-deployment                   2m
```

### Discover Traffic Targets

Similarly for the `bookinfo` services:

```shell
kubectl -n service-mesh-hub get traffictargets
```

```
NAME                                                 AGE
details-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster                    4m23s
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-mgmt-cluster   23h
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-remote-cluster     23h
productpage-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster                4m23s
ratings-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster                    4m22s
ratings-bookinfo-remote-cluster                      3m54s
reviews-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster                    4m22s
reviews-bookinfo-remote-cluster                      2m29s
```

## See it in action

Check out "Part One" of the ["Dive into Service Mesh Hub" video series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4sWikVELr5M&list=PLBOtlFtGznBjr4E9xYHH9eVyiOwnk1ciK)
(note that the video content reflects Service Mesh Hub <b>v0.6.1</b>):

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4sWikVELr5M" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Next Steps

Now that we have Istio installed, and we've seen Service Mesh Hub discover the meshes across different clusters, we can now unify them into a single [Virtual Mesh]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/virtual_mesh/" %}}). See the guide on [establishing shared trust domain for multiple meshes]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/federate_identity" %}}).

Commit message:

Rebrand from "Service Mesh Hub" to "Gloo Mesh" (#1060)
* update code gen and generated code

* update code imports

* change version gloomesh -> mesh.gloo

* smh -> gloomesh

* update makefile

* docs

* gitignore

* codegen variable names

* update docs site generation

* ci

* docs smh -> gloomesh

* miscellaneous

* update images

* proto smh -> "Gloo Mesh"

* changelog

* update GCS bucket

* restore settings.yaml

* fix docs nav bar old version warning

docs/content/guides/discovery_intro.md, after:

---
title: Mesh Discovery
menuTitle: Mesh Discovery
weight: 20
---

Gloo Mesh can automatically discover service mesh installations on registered clusters using control plane and sidecar discovery, as well as workloads and services exposed through the service mesh.

In this guide we will learn about the four main discovery capabilities in the context of Kubernetes as the compute platform:

1. **Kubernetes Clusters**
    - Representation of a cluster that Gloo Mesh is aware of and is authorized to talk to its Kubernetes API server
    - *note*: this resource is created by `meshctl` at cluster registration time
2. **Meshes**
    - Representation of a service mesh control plane that has been discovered 
3. **Workloads**
    - Representation of a pod that is a member of a service mesh; this is often determined by the presence of an injected proxy sidecar
4. **TrafficTargets**
    - Representation of a Kubernetes service that is backed by Workload pods, e.g. pods that are a member of the service mesh


## Before you begin
To illustrate these concepts, we will assume that:

* Gloo Mesh is [installed and running on the `mgmt-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/#install-gloo-mesh" %}})
* Istio is [installed on both the `mgmt-cluster` and `remote-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/installing_istio" %}})
* Both `mgmt-cluster` and `remote-cluster` clusters are [registered with Gloo Mesh]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#two-registered-clusters" %}})
* The `bookinfo` app is [installed into the two clusters]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#bookinfo-deployed-on-two-clusters" %}})


{{% notice note %}}
Be sure to review the assumptions and satisfy the pre-requisites from the [Guides]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides" %}}) top-level document.
{{% /notice %}}

### Discover Kubernetes Clusters

Ensure that your `kubeconfig` has the correct context set as its `currentContext`:

```shell
MGMT_CONTEXT=your_management_plane_context
REMOTE_CONTEXT=your_remote_context
kubectl config use-context $MGMT_CONTEXT
```

Validate that the cluster have been registered by checking for `KubernetesClusters` custom resources:

```shell
kubectl get kubernetesclusters -n gloo-mesh
```

```shell
NAME                 AGE
mgmt-cluster         23h
remote-cluster       23h
```

### Discover Meshes

Check to see that Istio has been discovered:

```shell
meshctl describe mesh
```

```
+-----------------------------+----------------+-------------------+
|           METADATA          | VIRTUAL MESHES | FAILOVER SERVICES |
+-----------------------------+----------------+-------------------+
| Namespace: istio-system     |                |                   |
| Cluster: mgmt-cluster       |                |                   |
| Type: istio                 |                |                   |
| Version: 1.5.2              |                |                   |
|                             |                |                   |
+-----------------------------+----------------+-------------------+
| Namespace: istio-system     |                |                   |
| Cluster: remote-cluster     |                |                   |
| Type: istio                 |                |                   |
| Version: 1.5.2              |                |                   |
|                             |                |                   |
+-----------------------------+----------------+-------------------+
```

We can print it in YAML form to see all the information we discovered:

```shell
kubectl -n gloo-mesh get mesh istiod-istio-system-remote-cluster -oyaml
```

(snipped for brevity)

{{< highlight yaml >}}
apiVersion: discovery.mesh.gloo.solo.io/v1alpha2
kind: Mesh
metadata:  
  ... 
  labels:
    cluster.discovery.mesh.gloo.solo.io: remote-cluster
    cluster.multicluster.solo.io: ""
    owner.discovery.mesh.gloo.solo.io: gloo-mesh
  name: istiod-istio-system-remote-cluster
  namespace: gloo-mesh
  resourceVersion: "2649"
  selfLink: /apis/discovery.mesh.gloo.solo.io/v1alpha2/namespaces/gloo-mesh/meshes/istiod-istio-system-remote-cluster
  uid: e7dfed16-7f29-40ac-896c-db24a7c05321
spec:
  agentInfo:
    agentNamespace: gloo-mesh
  istio:
    citadelInfo:
      citadelServiceAccount: istio-pilot-service-account
      trustDomain: cluster.local
    ingressGateways:
    - externalAddress: 172.18.0.3
      externalTlsPort: 32000
      tlsContainerPort: 15443
      workloadLabels:
        istio: ingressgateway
    installation:
      cluster: remote-cluster
      namespace: istio-system
      podLabels:
        istio: pilot
      version: 1.5.2
status:
  observedGeneration: "1"

{{< /highlight >}}

### Discover Workloads

Check to see that the `bookinfo` pods have been correctly identified as Workloads:

```shell
kubectl -n gloo-mesh get workloads
```

```
NAME                                                            AGE
NAME                                                            AGE
details-v1-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster-deployment                 3m54s
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-mgmt-cluster-deployment   23h
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-remote-cluster-deployment     23h
productpage-v1-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster-deployment             3m54s
ratings-v1-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster-deployment                 3m53s
ratings-v1-bookinfo-remote-cluster-deployment                   3m25s
reviews-v1-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster-deployment                 3m53s
reviews-v2-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster-deployment                 3m53s
reviews-v3-bookinfo-remote-cluster-deployment                   2m
```

### Discover Traffic Targets

Similarly for the `bookinfo` services:

```shell
kubectl -n gloo-mesh get traffictargets
```

```
NAME                                                 AGE
details-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster                    4m23s
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-mgmt-cluster   23h
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-remote-cluster     23h
productpage-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster                4m23s
ratings-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster                    4m22s
ratings-bookinfo-remote-cluster                      3m54s
reviews-bookinfo-mgmt-cluster                    4m22s
reviews-bookinfo-remote-cluster                      2m29s
```

## See it in action

Check out "Part One" of the ["Dive into Gloo Mesh" video series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4sWikVELr5M&list=PLBOtlFtGznBjr4E9xYHH9eVyiOwnk1ciK)
(note that the video content reflects Gloo Mesh <b>v0.6.1</b>):

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4sWikVELr5M" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Next Steps

Now that we have Istio installed, and we've seen Gloo Mesh discover the meshes across different clusters, we can now unify them into a single [Virtual Mesh]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/virtual_mesh/" %}}). See the guide on [establishing shared trust domain for multiple meshes]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/federate_identity" %}}).
