docs/content/guides/multicluster_communication.md, before:

---
title: Multi-cluster Traffic
menuTitle: Multi-cluster Traffic
weight: 75
---

In the [previous guides]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/federate_identity/" %}}), we federated multiple meshes and established a [shared root CA for a shared identity]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/federate_identity/#understanding-the-shared-root-process" %}}) domain. Now that we have a logical [VirtualMesh]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/virtual_mesh/" %}}), we need a way to establish **traffic** policies across the multiple meshes, without treating each of them individually. Service Mesh Hub helps by establishing a single, unified API that understands the logical VirtualMesh construct.

## Before you begin
To illustrate these concepts, we will assume that:

* Service Mesh Hub is [installed and running on the `management-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/#install-service-mesh-hub" %}})
* Istio is [installed on both the `management-cluster` and `remote-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/installing_istio" %}}) clusters
* Both `management-cluster` and `remote-cluster` clusters are [registered with Service Mesh Hub]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#two-registered-clusters" %}})
* The `bookinfo` app is [installed into the two clusters]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#bookinfo-deployed-on-two-clusters" %}})


{{% notice note %}}
Be sure to review the assumptions and satisfy the pre-requisites from the [Guides]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides" %}}) top-level document.
{{% /notice %}}

## Controlling cross-cluster traffic

We will now perform a *multi-cluster traffic split*, splitting traffic from the `productpage` service in the `management-cluster` cluster between `reviews-v1`, `reviews-v2`, and `reviews-v3` running in the `remote-cluster` cluster.

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="YAML file" codelang="shell">}}
apiVersion: networking.smh.solo.io/v1alpha2
kind: TrafficPolicy
metadata:
  namespace: service-mesh-hub
  name: simple
spec:
  destinationSelector:
  - kubeServiceRefs:
      services:
        - clusterName: management-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
  trafficShift:
    destinations:
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: new-remote-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
        weight: 75
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: management-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
          subset:
            version: v1
        weight: 15
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: management-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
          subset:
            version: v2
        weight: 10
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="CLI inline" codelang="shell" >}}
kubectl apply --context $MGMT_CONTEXT -f - << EOF
apiVersion: networking.smh.solo.io/v1alpha2
kind: TrafficPolicy
metadata:
  namespace: service-mesh-hub
  name: simple
spec:
  destinationSelector:
  - kubeServiceRefs:
      services:
        - clusterName: management-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
  trafficShift:
    destinations:
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: new-remote-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
        weight: 75
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: management-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
          subset:
            version: v1
        weight: 15
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: management-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
          subset:
            version: v2
        weight: 10
EOF
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Once you apply this resource to the `management-cluster` cluster, you should occasionally see traffic being routed to the reviews-v3 service, which will produce red-colored stars on the product page.

To go into slightly more detail here: The above TrafficPolicy says that:

* Any traffic destined for the *reviews service* in the *management plane cluster* should be split across several different destinations
  * 25% of traffic gets split between the v1 and v2 instances of the reviews service in the management plane cluster
  * 75% of traffic gets sent to the v3 instance of the reviews service on the remote cluster

We have successfully set up multi-cluster traffic across our application! Note that this has been done transparently to the application. The application can continue talking to what it believes is the local instance of the service. Behind the scenes we have instead routed that traffic to an entirely different cluster. 

Note that this is interesting in its own right, that we have easily achieved multi-cluster communication, but also in other scenarios like in fast disaster recovery: We can quickly route traffic to healthy instances of a service in an entirely different data center.

## See it in action

Check out "Part Four" of the ["Dive into Service Mesh Hub" video series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4sWikVELr5M&list=PLBOtlFtGznBjr4E9xYHH9eVyiOwnk1ciK)
(note that the video content reflects Service Mesh Hub <b>v0.6.1</b>):

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HAr1Mw1bxB4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

Updated failover service guide (#928)
* Updated failover service guide
* Merge branch 'main' into failover-guide-docs
* fix mgmt naming
* fix new-remote-cluster
* typo fix
* working guide for failover
* add changelog
* Merge branch 'main' into failover-guide-docs
* Merge branch 'main' into failover-guide-docs
* Merge branch 'main' into failover-guide-docs
* Merge branch 'main' into failover-guide-docs
* update changelog
* Merge branch 'failover-guide-docs' of github.com:solo-io/service-mesh-hub into failover-guide-docs

docs/content/guides/multicluster_communication.md, after:

---
title: Multi-cluster Traffic
menuTitle: Multi-cluster Traffic
weight: 75
---

In the [previous guides]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/federate_identity/" %}}), we federated multiple meshes and established a [shared root CA for a shared identity]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/federate_identity/#understanding-the-shared-root-process" %}}) domain. Now that we have a logical [VirtualMesh]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/virtual_mesh/" %}}), we need a way to establish **traffic** policies across the multiple meshes, without treating each of them individually. Service Mesh Hub helps by establishing a single, unified API that understands the logical VirtualMesh construct.

## Before you begin
To illustrate these concepts, we will assume that:

* Service Mesh Hub is [installed and running on the `mgmt-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/#install-service-mesh-hub" %}})
* Istio is [installed on both the `mgmt-cluster` and `remote-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/installing_istio" %}}) clusters
* Both `mgmt-cluster` and `remote-cluster` clusters are [registered with Service Mesh Hub]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#two-registered-clusters" %}})
* The `bookinfo` app is [installed into the two clusters]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#bookinfo-deployed-on-two-clusters" %}})


{{% notice note %}}
Be sure to review the assumptions and satisfy the pre-requisites from the [Guides]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides" %}}) top-level document.
{{% /notice %}}

## Controlling cross-cluster traffic

We will now perform a *multi-cluster traffic split*, splitting traffic from the `productpage` service in the `mgmt-cluster` cluster between `reviews-v1`, `reviews-v2`, and `reviews-v3` running in the `remote-cluster` cluster.

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="YAML file" codelang="shell">}}
apiVersion: networking.smh.solo.io/v1alpha2
kind: TrafficPolicy
metadata:
  namespace: service-mesh-hub
  name: simple
spec:
  destinationSelector:
  - kubeServiceRefs:
      services:
        - clusterName: mgmt-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
  trafficShift:
    destinations:
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: remote-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
        weight: 75
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: mgmt-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
          subset:
            version: v1
        weight: 15
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: mgmt-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
          subset:
            version: v2
        weight: 10
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="CLI inline" codelang="shell" >}}
kubectl apply --context $MGMT_CONTEXT -f - << EOF
apiVersion: networking.smh.solo.io/v1alpha2
kind: TrafficPolicy
metadata:
  namespace: service-mesh-hub
  name: simple
spec:
  destinationSelector:
  - kubeServiceRefs:
      services:
        - clusterName: mgmt-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
  trafficShift:
    destinations:
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: remote-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
        weight: 75
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: mgmt-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
          subset:
            version: v1
        weight: 15
      - kubeService:
          clusterName: mgmt-cluster
          name: reviews
          namespace: bookinfo
          subset:
            version: v2
        weight: 10
EOF
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Once you apply this resource to the `mgmt-cluster` cluster, you should occasionally see traffic being routed to the reviews-v3 service, which will produce red-colored stars on the product page.

To go into slightly more detail here: The above TrafficPolicy says that:

* Any traffic destined for the *reviews service* in the *management plane cluster* should be split across several different destinations
  * 25% of traffic gets split between the v1 and v2 instances of the reviews service in the management plane cluster
  * 75% of traffic gets sent to the v3 instance of the reviews service on the remote cluster

We have successfully set up multi-cluster traffic across our application! Note that this has been done transparently to the application. The application can continue talking to what it believes is the local instance of the service. Behind the scenes we have instead routed that traffic to an entirely different cluster. 

Note that this is interesting in its own right, that we have easily achieved multi-cluster communication, but also in other scenarios like in fast disaster recovery: We can quickly route traffic to healthy instances of a service in an entirely different data center.

## See it in action

Check out "Part Four" of the ["Dive into Service Mesh Hub" video series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4sWikVELr5M&list=PLBOtlFtGznBjr4E9xYHH9eVyiOwnk1ciK)
(note that the video content reflects Service Mesh Hub <b>v0.6.1</b>):

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HAr1Mw1bxB4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
