docs/content/guides/traffic_policy.md, before:

---
title: Configuring a Traffic Policy
menuTitle: Traffic Policy
weight: 25
---

Service Mesh Hub can manage and configure multiple service meshes across multiple Kubernetes clusters. Service Mesh Hub can control the configuration of traffic policies of associated services from a given mesh, including properties like timeouts, retries, CORS, and header manipulation.

In this guide we will examine how Service Mesh Hub can configure Istio to apply retry and timeout settings to an existing service. We will be dealing with the same resource types that were introduced in the [Mesh Discovery]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/discovery_intro" %}}) guide.

1. **Kubernetes Clusters**
    - Representation of a cluster that Service Mesh Hub is aware of and is authorized to talk to its Kubernetes API server
    - *note*: this resource is created by `meshctl` at cluster registration time
2. **Meshes**
    - Representation of a service mesh control plane that has been discovered 
3. **Workloads**
    - Representation of a pod that is a member of a service mesh; this is often determined by the presence of an injected proxy sidecar
4. **TrafficTargets**
    - Representation of a Kubernetes service that is backed by Workload pods, e.g. pods that are a member of the service mesh


## Before you begin
To illustrate these concepts, we will assume that:

* Service Mesh Hub is [installed and running on the `management-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/#install-service-mesh-hub" %}})
* Istio is [installed on the `management-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/installing_istio" %}})
* The management cluster is [registered with Service Mesh Hub]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#two-registered-clusters" %}})


{{% notice note %}}
Be sure to review the assumptions and satisfy the pre-requisites from the [Guides]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides" %}}) top-level document.
{{% /notice %}}

### Create a service

First we are going to deploy the Pet Store application to the management cluster in the `default` namespace. Before deploying the application, we need to label the `default` namespace for Istio sidecar injection.

Ensure that your `kubeconfig` has the management cluster set as its current context:

```shell
MGMT_CONTEXT=your_management_plane_context
kubectl config use-context $MGMT_CONTEXT
```

Label the `default` namespace:

```shell
kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
```

Now we will deploy the Pet Store application:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/solo-io/gloo/v1.2.9/example/petstore/petstore.yaml
```

We can verify the deployment and service by checking for resources in the default namespace:

```shell
kubectl get all
```

```shell
NAME                           READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/petstore-fc84b46dd-c9794   2/2     Running   0          3m

NAME                 TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
service/kubernetes   ClusterIP   10.96.0.1       <none>        443/TCP    31m
service/petstore     ClusterIP   10.99.255.226   <none>        8080/TCP   3m

NAME                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/petstore   1/1     1            1           3m

NAME                                 DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/petstore-fc84b46dd   1         1         1       3m
```

Because we labeled the `default` namespace for proxy sidecar injection, Istio has added a container to the `petstore` pod. We can verify this by looking at the details of the pod.

```shell
kubectl get pod -l app=petstore -oyaml | grep sidecar
```

```shell
sidecar.istio.io/status: '{"version":"fca84600f9d5ec316cf1cf577da902f38bac258ab0fd595ee208ec0203dc0c6d","initContainers":["istio-init"],"containers":["istio-proxy"],"volumes":["istio-envoy","podinfo"],"imagePullSecrets":null}'
```

Now we can verify that Service Mesh Hub has discovered the Pet Store application and configure a *TrafficPolicy* for it.

### Configure Traffic Policy

With our Pet Store application deployed and wired up to Istio, let's make sure that Service Mesh Hub has discovered it by checking for *Workload* and *TrafficTarget* resources.

```shell
kubectl get workloads -n service-mesh-hub
```

```shell
NAME                                                              AGE
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-management-cluster-deployment   3h4m
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-remote-cluster-deployment       3h4m
petstore-default-management-cluster-deployment                    3h4m
```

If you've also deployed the Bookstore application, you may see entries for that as well. We can see the naming for the Pet Store application is the deployment name, followed by the namespace, and then the cluster name. We can also check for the *TrafficTarget*, which represents the service associated with the pods in the Workload resource.

```shell
kubectl get traffictarget -n service-mesh-hub
```

```shell
NAME                                                   AGE
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-management-cluster   3h7m
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-remote-cluster       3h6m
petstore-default-management-cluster                    3h7m
```

We are going to create a TrafficPolicy that uses the `petstore-default-management-cluster` as a TrafficTarget. Within the TrafficPolicy, we are going to set a retry limit and timeout for the service. You can find more information about the options available for TrafficPolicy in the [API reference section]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/traffic_policy" %}}).

Here is the configuration we will apply:

```shell
kubectl apply --context $MGMT_CONTEXT -f - << EOF
apiVersion: networking.smh.solo.io/v1alpha2
kind: TrafficPolicy
metadata:
  namespace: service-mesh-hub
  name: petstore
spec:
  destinationSelector:
  - kubeServiceRefs:
      services:
        - clusterName: management-cluster
          name: petstore
          namespace: default
  requestTimeout: 100ms
  retries:
    attempts: 5
    perTryTimeout: 5ms
EOF
```

We are using the `destinationSelector` property to specify a single Kubernetes service on the management cluster. We could specify multiple services across several clusters, along with setting up a Virtual Mesh and Multicluster communication. The request timeout is being set to 100ms and there is a maximum of five attempts before an error will be returned.

We can validate that the settings have been applied by checking the status of the Istio VirtualService for the Pet Store application:

```shell
kubectl get virtualservice petstore -oyaml
```

```shell
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  annotations:
    kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration: |
      {"apiVersion":"v1","kind":"Service","metadata":{"annotations":{},"labels":{"service":"petstore"},"name":"petstore","namespace":"default"},"spec":{"ports":[{"port":8080,"protocol":"TCP"}],"selector":{"app":"petstore"}}}
  creationTimestamp: "2020-08-25T15:12:56Z"
  generation: 1
  labels:
    cluster.multicluster.solo.io: management-cluster
    owner.networking.smh.solo.io: service-mesh-hub
  name: petstore
  namespace: default
  resourceVersion: "8008"
  selfLink: /apis/networking.istio.io/v1beta1/namespaces/default/virtualservices/petstore
  uid: f605f2b7-611b-43fa-8ed2-22c6cc5b4166
spec:
  hosts:
  - petstore.default.svc.cluster.local
  http:
  - retries:
      attempts: 5
      perTryTimeout: 0.005s
    route:
    - destination:
        host: petstore.default.svc.cluster.local
    timeout: 0.100s
```

As we can see above, the proper retry and timeout settings have been applied to the VirtualService from the Service Mesh Hub TrafficPolicy. This feature can be extended to configure many services across multiple service meshes and clusters. Many other features can be configured through the traffic policy as well, including fault injection and traffic mirroring. The [`TrafficPolicySpec`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/traffic_policy" %}}) in our API provides more information on using traffic policies.

## Next Steps

Now that we have seen a simple example of how Service Mesh Hub can be used to configure traffic policies, we can expand that vision across multiple clusters in a [Virtual Mesh]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/virtual_mesh/" %}}). See the guide on [establishing shared trust domain for multiple meshes]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/federate_identity" %}}).

Commit message:

Updated failover service guide (#928)
* Updated failover service guide
* Merge branch 'main' into failover-guide-docs
* fix mgmt naming
* fix new-remote-cluster
* typo fix
* working guide for failover
* add changelog
* Merge branch 'main' into failover-guide-docs
* Merge branch 'main' into failover-guide-docs
* Merge branch 'main' into failover-guide-docs
* Merge branch 'main' into failover-guide-docs
* update changelog
* Merge branch 'failover-guide-docs' of github.com:solo-io/service-mesh-hub into failover-guide-docs

docs/content/guides/traffic_policy.md, after:

---
title: Configuring a Traffic Policy
menuTitle: Traffic Policy
weight: 25
---

Service Mesh Hub can manage and configure multiple service meshes across multiple Kubernetes clusters. Service Mesh Hub can control the configuration of traffic policies of associated services from a given mesh, including properties like timeouts, retries, CORS, and header manipulation.

In this guide we will examine how Service Mesh Hub can configure Istio to apply retry and timeout settings to an existing service. We will be dealing with the same resource types that were introduced in the [Mesh Discovery]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/discovery_intro" %}}) guide.

1. **Kubernetes Clusters**
    - Representation of a cluster that Service Mesh Hub is aware of and is authorized to talk to its Kubernetes API server
    - *note*: this resource is created by `meshctl` at cluster registration time
2. **Meshes**
    - Representation of a service mesh control plane that has been discovered 
3. **Workloads**
    - Representation of a pod that is a member of a service mesh; this is often determined by the presence of an injected proxy sidecar
4. **TrafficTargets**
    - Representation of a Kubernetes service that is backed by Workload pods, e.g. pods that are a member of the service mesh


## Before you begin
To illustrate these concepts, we will assume that:

* Service Mesh Hub is [installed and running on the `mgmt-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/#install-service-mesh-hub" %}})
* Istio is [installed on the `mgmt-cluster`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/installing_istio" %}})
* The management cluster is [registered with Service Mesh Hub]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#two-registered-clusters" %}})


{{% notice note %}}
Be sure to review the assumptions and satisfy the pre-requisites from the [Guides]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides" %}}) top-level document.
{{% /notice %}}

### Create a service

First we are going to deploy the Pet Store application to the management cluster in the `default` namespace. Before deploying the application, we need to label the `default` namespace for Istio sidecar injection.

Ensure that your `kubeconfig` has the management cluster set as its current context:

```shell
MGMT_CONTEXT=your_management_plane_context
kubectl config use-context $MGMT_CONTEXT
```

Label the `default` namespace:

```shell
kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
```

Now we will deploy the Pet Store application:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/solo-io/gloo/v1.2.9/example/petstore/petstore.yaml
```

We can verify the deployment and service by checking for resources in the default namespace:

```shell
kubectl get all
```

```shell
NAME                           READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/petstore-fc84b46dd-c9794   2/2     Running   0          3m

NAME                 TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
service/kubernetes   ClusterIP   10.96.0.1       <none>        443/TCP    31m
service/petstore     ClusterIP   10.99.255.226   <none>        8080/TCP   3m

NAME                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/petstore   1/1     1            1           3m

NAME                                 DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/petstore-fc84b46dd   1         1         1       3m
```

Because we labeled the `default` namespace for proxy sidecar injection, Istio has added a container to the `petstore` pod. We can verify this by looking at the details of the pod.

```shell
kubectl get pod -l app=petstore -oyaml | grep sidecar
```

```shell
sidecar.istio.io/status: '{"version":"fca84600f9d5ec316cf1cf577da902f38bac258ab0fd595ee208ec0203dc0c6d","initContainers":["istio-init"],"containers":["istio-proxy"],"volumes":["istio-envoy","podinfo"],"imagePullSecrets":null}'
```

Now we can verify that Service Mesh Hub has discovered the Pet Store application and configure a *TrafficPolicy* for it.

### Configure Traffic Policy

With our Pet Store application deployed and wired up to Istio, let's make sure that Service Mesh Hub has discovered it by checking for *Workload* and *TrafficTarget* resources.

```shell
kubectl get workloads -n service-mesh-hub
```

```shell
NAME                                                              AGE
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-mgmt-cluster-deployment   3h4m
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-remote-cluster-deployment       3h4m
petstore-default-mgmt-cluster-deployment                    3h4m
```

If you've also deployed the Bookstore application, you may see entries for that as well. We can see the naming for the Pet Store application is the deployment name, followed by the namespace, and then the cluster name. We can also check for the *TrafficTarget*, which represents the service associated with the pods in the Workload resource.

```shell
kubectl get traffictarget -n service-mesh-hub
```

```shell
NAME                                                   AGE
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-mgmt-cluster   3h7m
istio-ingressgateway-istio-system-remote-cluster       3h6m
petstore-default-mgmt-cluster                    3h7m
```

We are going to create a TrafficPolicy that uses the `petstore-default-mgmt-cluster` as a TrafficTarget. Within the TrafficPolicy, we are going to set a retry limit and timeout for the service. You can find more information about the options available for TrafficPolicy in the [API reference section]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/traffic_policy" %}}).

Here is the configuration we will apply:

```shell
kubectl apply --context $MGMT_CONTEXT -f - << EOF
apiVersion: networking.smh.solo.io/v1alpha2
kind: TrafficPolicy
metadata:
  namespace: service-mesh-hub
  name: petstore
spec:
  destinationSelector:
  - kubeServiceRefs:
      services:
        - clusterName: mgmt-cluster
          name: petstore
          namespace: default
  requestTimeout: 100ms
  retries:
    attempts: 5
    perTryTimeout: 5ms
EOF
```

We are using the `destinationSelector` property to specify a single Kubernetes service on the management cluster. We could specify multiple services across several clusters, along with setting up a Virtual Mesh and Multicluster communication. The request timeout is being set to 100ms and there is a maximum of five attempts before an error will be returned.

We can validate that the settings have been applied by checking the status of the Istio VirtualService for the Pet Store application:

```shell
kubectl get virtualservice petstore -oyaml
```

```shell
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  annotations:
    kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration: |
      {"apiVersion":"v1","kind":"Service","metadata":{"annotations":{},"labels":{"service":"petstore"},"name":"petstore","namespace":"default"},"spec":{"ports":[{"port":8080,"protocol":"TCP"}],"selector":{"app":"petstore"}}}
  creationTimestamp: "2020-08-25T15:12:56Z"
  generation: 1
  labels:
    cluster.multicluster.solo.io: mgmt-cluster
    owner.networking.smh.solo.io: service-mesh-hub
  name: petstore
  namespace: default
  resourceVersion: "8008"
  selfLink: /apis/networking.istio.io/v1beta1/namespaces/default/virtualservices/petstore
  uid: f605f2b7-611b-43fa-8ed2-22c6cc5b4166
spec:
  hosts:
  - petstore.default.svc.cluster.local
  http:
  - retries:
      attempts: 5
      perTryTimeout: 0.005s
    route:
    - destination:
        host: petstore.default.svc.cluster.local
    timeout: 0.100s
```

As we can see above, the proper retry and timeout settings have been applied to the VirtualService from the Service Mesh Hub TrafficPolicy. This feature can be extended to configure many services across multiple service meshes and clusters. Many other features can be configured through the traffic policy as well, including fault injection and traffic mirroring. The [`TrafficPolicySpec`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/traffic_policy" %}}) in our API provides more information on using traffic policies.

## Next Steps

Now that we have seen a simple example of how Service Mesh Hub can be used to configure traffic policies, we can expand that vision across multiple clusters in a [Virtual Mesh]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/virtual_mesh/" %}}). See the guide on [establishing shared trust domain for multiple meshes]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/federate_identity" %}}).
