docs/content/reference/api/certificate_request.md, before:


---
title: "certificate_request.proto"
---

## Package : `certificates.smh.solo.io`



<a name="top"></a>

<a name="API Reference for certificate_request.proto"></a>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## certificate_request.proto


## Table of Contents
  - [CertificateRequestSpec](#certificates.smh.solo.io.CertificateRequestSpec)
  - [CertificateRequestStatus](#certificates.smh.solo.io.CertificateRequestStatus)

  - [CertificateRequestStatus.State](#certificates.smh.solo.io.CertificateRequestStatus.State)






<a name="certificates.smh.solo.io.CertificateRequestSpec"></a>

### CertificateRequestSpec
CertificateRequests are generated by the CertificateRequesting Agent installed on managed clusters. They are used to request a signed certificate from Service Mesh Hub based on a private key generated by the Agent (which never leaves the managed cluster).<br>When Service Mesh Hub creates an IssuedCertificate on a managed cluster, the local CertificateRequesting Agent will generate a CertificateRequest corresponding to it.<br>Service Mesh Hub will then process the Certificate Signing Request contained in the CertificateRequestSpec and write the signed SSL certificate back as a secret in the managed cluster, and update the CertificateRequest Status to point to that secret.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| certificateSigningRequest | bytes |  | Base64-encoded data for the PKCS#10 Certificate Signing Request issued by the CertificateRequesting Agent deployed in the managed cluster, corresponding to the IssuedRequest received by the CertificateRequesting Agent. |






<a name="certificates.smh.solo.io.CertificateRequestStatus"></a>

### CertificateRequestStatus



| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| observedGeneration | int64 |  | The most recent generation observed in the the CertificateRequest metadata. If the observedGeneration does not match generation, the CA has not processed the most recent version of this request. |
| error | string |  | Any error observed which prevented the CertificateRequest from being processed. If the error is empty, the request has been processed successfully |
| state | certificates.smh.solo.io.CertificateRequestStatus.State |  | The current state of the CertificateRequest workflow reported by the Issuer. |
| signedCertificate | bytes |  | The signed intermediate certificate issued by the CA. |
| signingRootCa | bytes |  | The root CA used by the CA to sign the certificate. |





 <!-- end messages -->


<a name="certificates.smh.solo.io.CertificateRequestStatus.State"></a>

### CertificateRequestStatus.State
Possible states in which a CertificateRequest can exist.

| Name | Number | Description |
| ---- | ------ | ----------- |
| PENDING | 0 | The CertificateRequest has yet to be picked up by the issuer. |
| FINISHED | 1 | The Issuer has replied to the request and the signedCertificate and SigningRootCa status fields will be populated. |
| FAILED | 2 | Processing the certificate workflow failed. |


 <!-- end enums -->

 <!-- end HasExtensions -->

 <!-- end services -->

Commit message:

Rebrand from "Service Mesh Hub" to "Gloo Mesh" (#1060)
* update code gen and generated code

* update code imports

* change version gloomesh -> mesh.gloo

* smh -> gloomesh

* update makefile

* docs

* gitignore

* codegen variable names

* update docs site generation

* ci

* docs smh -> gloomesh

* miscellaneous

* update images

* proto smh -> "Gloo Mesh"

* changelog

* update GCS bucket

* restore settings.yaml

* fix docs nav bar old version warning

docs/content/reference/api/certificate_request.md, after:


---
title: "certificate_request.proto"
---

## Package : `certificates.mesh.gloo.solo.io`



<a name="top"></a>

<a name="API Reference for certificate_request.proto"></a>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## certificate_request.proto


## Table of Contents
  - [CertificateRequestSpec](#certificates.mesh.gloo.solo.io.CertificateRequestSpec)
  - [CertificateRequestStatus](#certificates.mesh.gloo.solo.io.CertificateRequestStatus)

  - [CertificateRequestStatus.State](#certificates.mesh.gloo.solo.io.CertificateRequestStatus.State)






<a name="certificates.mesh.gloo.solo.io.CertificateRequestSpec"></a>

### CertificateRequestSpec
CertificateRequests are generated by the CertificateRequesting Agent installed on managed clusters. They are used to request a signed certificate from Gloo Mesh based on a private key generated by the Agent (which never leaves the managed cluster).<br>When Gloo Mesh creates an IssuedCertificate on a managed cluster, the local CertificateRequesting Agent will generate a CertificateRequest corresponding to it.<br>Gloo Mesh will then process the Certificate Signing Request contained in the CertificateRequestSpec and write the signed SSL certificate back as a secret in the managed cluster, and update the CertificateRequest Status to point to that secret.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| certificateSigningRequest | bytes |  | Base64-encoded data for the PKCS#10 Certificate Signing Request issued by the CertificateRequesting Agent deployed in the managed cluster, corresponding to the IssuedRequest received by the CertificateRequesting Agent. |






<a name="certificates.mesh.gloo.solo.io.CertificateRequestStatus"></a>

### CertificateRequestStatus



| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| observedGeneration | int64 |  | The most recent generation observed in the the CertificateRequest metadata. If the observedGeneration does not match generation, the CA has not processed the most recent version of this request. |
| error | string |  | Any error observed which prevented the CertificateRequest from being processed. If the error is empty, the request has been processed successfully |
| state | certificates.mesh.gloo.solo.io.CertificateRequestStatus.State |  | The current state of the CertificateRequest workflow reported by the Issuer. |
| signedCertificate | bytes |  | The signed intermediate certificate issued by the CA. |
| signingRootCa | bytes |  | The root CA used by the CA to sign the certificate. |





 <!-- end messages -->


<a name="certificates.mesh.gloo.solo.io.CertificateRequestStatus.State"></a>

### CertificateRequestStatus.State
Possible states in which a CertificateRequest can exist.

| Name | Number | Description |
| ---- | ------ | ----------- |
| PENDING | 0 | The CertificateRequest has yet to be picked up by the issuer. |
| FINISHED | 1 | The Issuer has replied to the request and the signedCertificate and SigningRootCa status fields will be populated. |
| FAILED | 2 | Processing the certificate workflow failed. |


 <!-- end enums -->

 <!-- end HasExtensions -->

 <!-- end services -->
