docs/content/reference/api/mesh.md, before:


---
title: "mesh.proto"
---

## Package : `discovery.zephyr.solo.io`



<a name="top"></a>

<a name="API Reference for mesh.proto"></a>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## mesh.proto


## Table of Contents
  - [MeshSpec](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec)
  - [MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh)
  - [MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh)
  - [MeshSpec.IstioMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh)
  - [MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo)
  - [MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh)
  - [MeshSpec.MeshInstallation](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.MeshInstallation)
  - [MeshStatus](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshStatus)







<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec"></a>

### MeshSpec
Meshes represent a currently registered service mesh.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| istio | [MeshSpec.IstioMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh) |  |  |
| awsAppMesh | [MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh) |  |  |
| linkerd | [MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh) |  |  |
| consulConnect | [MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh) |  |  |
| cluster | [core.zephyr.solo.io.ResourceRef](#core.zephyr.solo.io.ResourceRef) |  | The cluster on which this mesh resides. |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh"></a>

### MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh
Mesh object representing AWS App Mesh


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| installation | [MeshSpec.MeshInstallation](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.MeshInstallation) |  |  |
| region | [string](#string) |  | The AWS region the AWS App Mesh control plane resources exist in. |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh"></a>

### MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh



| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| installation | [MeshSpec.MeshInstallation](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.MeshInstallation) |  |  |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh"></a>

### MeshSpec.IstioMesh
Mesh object representing an installed Istio control plane


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| installation | [MeshSpec.MeshInstallation](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.MeshInstallation) |  |  |
| citadelInfo | [MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo) |  |  |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo"></a>

### MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo



| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| trustDomain | [string](#string) |  | Istio trust domain used for https/spiffe identity. https://spiffe.io/spiffe/concepts/#trust-domain https://istio.io/docs/reference/glossary/#identity<br>If empty will default to "cluster.local" |
| citadelNamespace | [string](#string) |  | istio-citadel namespace, used to determine identity for the Istio CA cert. If empty will default to MeshInstallation.installation_namespace |
| citadelServiceAccount | [string](#string) |  | istio-citadel service account, used to determine identity for the Istio CA cert. If empty will default to "istio-citadel" |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh"></a>

### MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh
Mesh object representing an installed Linkerd control plane


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| installation | [MeshSpec.MeshInstallation](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.MeshInstallation) |  |  |
| clusterDomain | [string](#string) |  | The cluster domain suffix this Linkerd mesh is configured with. See https://linkerd.io/2/tasks/using-custom-domain/ for info |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.MeshInstallation"></a>

### MeshSpec.MeshInstallation



| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| installationNamespace | [string](#string) |  | Namespace in which the control plane has been installed. |
| version | [string](#string) |  | version of the mesh which has been installed Note that the version may be "latest" |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshStatus"></a>

### MeshStatus






 <!-- end messages -->

 <!-- end enums -->

 <!-- end HasExtensions -->

 <!-- end services -->

Commit message:

Appmesh discovery (#631)
* rename cluster to MeshAPI
* represent AWS credentials as k8s Secret
* go mod tidy
* restructure packages and manager directory
* Deleting changelog file from old location
* wip
* appmesh mesh discovery
* initial sketch
* Restructure directories
* reconcile mesh, meshworkload, meshservice
* revert rename
* changelog
* gen code
* fix tests
* Adding changelog file to new location
* Deleting changelog file from old location
* Adding changelog file to new location
* Deleting changelog file from old location
* PR comments
* remove unnecessary async map
* gen
* change proto name
* minor errors
* don't resync if add mesh platform fails
* add tests, wip
* wip
* aws api reconciler only discovers meshes
* restructure directories
* add appmesh meshworkload discovery
* package renames
* wip
* dismabiguate AppMesh instance with both name and region
* record AWS Account ID from Mesh ARN
* revert API change
* restore appmeshapi mock
* some pr comments
* split out aws-utils functions
* rework MeshPlatformCredentialHandler interface/impls
* minor fix
* folder structure reorg
* pr comments
* Merge branch 'master' into appmesh-discovery-initial
* remove remaining references to pod.cluster, instead use explicit variable from ScanPod()

docs/content/reference/api/mesh.md, after:


---
title: "mesh.proto"
---

## Package : `discovery.zephyr.solo.io`



<a name="top"></a>

<a name="API Reference for mesh.proto"></a>
<p align="right"><a href="#top">Top</a></p>

## mesh.proto


## Table of Contents
  - [MeshSpec](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec)
  - [MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh)
  - [MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh)
  - [MeshSpec.IstioMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh)
  - [MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo)
  - [MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh)
  - [MeshSpec.MeshInstallation](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.MeshInstallation)
  - [MeshStatus](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshStatus)







<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec"></a>

### MeshSpec
Meshes represent a currently registered service mesh.


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| istio | [MeshSpec.IstioMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh) |  |  |
| awsAppMesh | [MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh) |  |  |
| linkerd | [MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh) |  |  |
| consulConnect | [MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh) |  |  |
| cluster | [core.zephyr.solo.io.ResourceRef](#core.zephyr.solo.io.ResourceRef) |  | The cluster on which this mesh resides. |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh"></a>

### MeshSpec.AwsAppMesh
Mesh object representing AWS AppMesh


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| name | [string](#string) |  | AWS name for the AppMesh instance, must be unique across the AWS account. |
| region | [string](#string) |  | The AWS region the AWS App Mesh control plane resources exist in. |
| awsAccountId | [string](#string) |  | The AWS Account ID associated with the Mesh. Populated at REST API registration time. |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh"></a>

### MeshSpec.ConsulConnectMesh



| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| installation | [MeshSpec.MeshInstallation](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.MeshInstallation) |  |  |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh"></a>

### MeshSpec.IstioMesh
Mesh object representing an installed Istio control plane


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| installation | [MeshSpec.MeshInstallation](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.MeshInstallation) |  |  |
| citadelInfo | [MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo) |  |  |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo"></a>

### MeshSpec.IstioMesh.CitadelInfo



| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| trustDomain | [string](#string) |  | Istio trust domain used for https/spiffe identity. https://spiffe.io/spiffe/concepts/#trust-domain https://istio.io/docs/reference/glossary/#identity<br>If empty will default to "cluster.local" |
| citadelNamespace | [string](#string) |  | istio-citadel namespace, used to determine identity for the Istio CA cert. If empty will default to MeshInstallation.installation_namespace |
| citadelServiceAccount | [string](#string) |  | istio-citadel service account, used to determine identity for the Istio CA cert. If empty will default to "istio-citadel" |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh"></a>

### MeshSpec.LinkerdMesh
Mesh object representing an installed Linkerd control plane


| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| installation | [MeshSpec.MeshInstallation](#discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.MeshInstallation) |  |  |
| clusterDomain | [string](#string) |  | The cluster domain suffix this Linkerd mesh is configured with. See https://linkerd.io/2/tasks/using-custom-domain/ for info |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshSpec.MeshInstallation"></a>

### MeshSpec.MeshInstallation



| Field | Type | Label | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----- | ----------- |
| installationNamespace | [string](#string) |  | Namespace in which the control plane has been installed. |
| version | [string](#string) |  | version of the mesh which has been installed Note that the version may be "latest" |






<a name="discovery.zephyr.solo.io.MeshStatus"></a>

### MeshStatus






 <!-- end messages -->

 <!-- end enums -->

 <!-- end HasExtensions -->

 <!-- end services -->
