doc/docs/v1/mesh.proto.sk.md, before:

<!-- Code generated by protoc-gen-solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->

## Package:
supergloo.solo.io

## Source File:
mesh.proto 

## Description:  

## Contents:
- Messages:  
	- [Mesh](#Mesh)  
	- [Istio](#Istio)  
	- [Linkerd2](#Linkerd2)  
	- [Consul](#Consul)  
	- [AppMesh](#AppMesh)

---
  
### <a name="Mesh">Mesh</a>

Description: 

```yaml
"status": .core.solo.io.Status
"metadata": .core.solo.io.Metadata
"istio": .supergloo.solo.io.Istio
"linkerd2": .supergloo.solo.io.Linkerd2
"consul": .supergloo.solo.io.Consul
"app_mesh": .supergloo.solo.io.AppMesh
"encryption": .supergloo.solo.io.Encryption
"observability": .supergloo.solo.io.Observability
"policy": .supergloo.solo.io.Policy

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| status | [.core.solo.io.Status](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) | Status indicates the validation status of this resource. Status is read-only by clients, and set by gloo during validation |  |
| metadata | [.core.solo.io.Metadata](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) | Metadata contains the object metadata for this resource |  |
| istio | [.supergloo.solo.io.Istio](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
| linkerd2 | [.supergloo.solo.io.Linkerd2](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
| consul | [.supergloo.solo.io.Consul](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
| app_mesh | [.supergloo.solo.io.AppMesh](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
| encryption | [.supergloo.solo.io.Encryption](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) | policy applied to the mesh TODO: rick-ducott, yuval-k: consider splitting these out as in routing.proto |  |
| observability | [.supergloo.solo.io.Observability](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
| policy | [.supergloo.solo.io.Policy](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
  
### <a name="Istio">Istio</a>

Description: configuration for an istio mesh. this will be autogenerated if Supergloo installs Istio for you.

```yaml
"installation_namespace": string
"watch_namespaces": [string]
"prometheus_configmap": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| installation_namespace | string | which namespace is istio installed to? |  |
| watch_namespaces | [string] | the namespaces istio is watching for its crd-based configuration. leave empty if istio install is cluster-wide |  |
| prometheus_configmap | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](mesh.proto.sk.md#Istio) | if provided, this will give Supergloo a reference to the prometheus configuration associated with this istio install if empty, Supergloo will look for the configmap `istio-system.prometheus` |  |
  
### <a name="Linkerd2">Linkerd2</a>

Description: configuration for an linkerd2 mesh. this will be autogenerated if Supergloo installs Linkerd2 for you.

```yaml
"installation_namespace": string
"watch_namespaces": [string]
"prometheus_configmap": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| installation_namespace | string | which namespace is linkerd2 installed to? |  |
| watch_namespaces | [string] | the namespaces linkerd2 is watching for its crd-based configuration. leave empty if linkerd2 install is cluster-wide |  |
| prometheus_configmap | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](mesh.proto.sk.md#Linkerd2) | if provided, this will give Supergloo a reference to the prometheus configuration associated with this linkerd2 install if empty, Supergloo will look for the configmap `linkerd.prometheus` |  |
  
### <a name="Consul">Consul</a>

Description: configuration for an consul mesh. this will be autogenerated if Supergloo installs Consul for you.

```yaml
"installation_namespace": string
"server_address": string
"prometheus_configmap": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| installation_namespace | string | which namespace is consul instatlled to? |  |
| server_address | string | address of the consul api server |  |
| prometheus_configmap | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](mesh.proto.sk.md#Consul) | if provided, this will give Supergloo a reference to the prometheus configuration associated with this consul install if empty, Supergloo will look for the configmap `linkerd.prometheus` |  |
  
### <a name="AppMesh">AppMesh</a>

Description: configuration for an AWS AppMesh mesh.

```yaml
"aws_credentials": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| aws_credentials | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](mesh.proto.sk.md#AppMesh) | ref to a Secret containing aws credentials |  |

Commit message:

add aws secret ref and region to mesh
Signed-off-by: Scott Weiss <sdw35@cornell.edu>

doc/docs/v1/mesh.proto.sk.md, after:

<!-- Code generated by protoc-gen-solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->

## Package:
supergloo.solo.io

## Source File:
mesh.proto 

## Description:  

## Contents:
- Messages:  
	- [Mesh](#Mesh)  
	- [Istio](#Istio)  
	- [Linkerd2](#Linkerd2)  
	- [Consul](#Consul)  
	- [AppMesh](#AppMesh)

---
  
### <a name="Mesh">Mesh</a>

Description: 

```yaml
"status": .core.solo.io.Status
"metadata": .core.solo.io.Metadata
"istio": .supergloo.solo.io.Istio
"linkerd2": .supergloo.solo.io.Linkerd2
"consul": .supergloo.solo.io.Consul
"app_mesh": .supergloo.solo.io.AppMesh
"encryption": .supergloo.solo.io.Encryption
"observability": .supergloo.solo.io.Observability
"policy": .supergloo.solo.io.Policy

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| status | [.core.solo.io.Status](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) | Status indicates the validation status of this resource. Status is read-only by clients, and set by gloo during validation |  |
| metadata | [.core.solo.io.Metadata](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) | Metadata contains the object metadata for this resource |  |
| istio | [.supergloo.solo.io.Istio](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
| linkerd2 | [.supergloo.solo.io.Linkerd2](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
| consul | [.supergloo.solo.io.Consul](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
| app_mesh | [.supergloo.solo.io.AppMesh](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
| encryption | [.supergloo.solo.io.Encryption](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) | policy applied to the mesh TODO: rick-ducott, yuval-k: consider splitting these out as in routing.proto |  |
| observability | [.supergloo.solo.io.Observability](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
| policy | [.supergloo.solo.io.Policy](mesh.proto.sk.md#Mesh) |  |  |
  
### <a name="Istio">Istio</a>

Description: configuration for an istio mesh. this will be autogenerated if Supergloo installs Istio for you.

```yaml
"installation_namespace": string
"watch_namespaces": [string]
"prometheus_configmap": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| installation_namespace | string | which namespace is istio installed to? |  |
| watch_namespaces | [string] | the namespaces istio is watching for its crd-based configuration. leave empty if istio install is cluster-wide |  |
| prometheus_configmap | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](mesh.proto.sk.md#Istio) | if provided, this will give Supergloo a reference to the prometheus configuration associated with this istio install if empty, Supergloo will look for the configmap `istio-system.prometheus` |  |
  
### <a name="Linkerd2">Linkerd2</a>

Description: configuration for an linkerd2 mesh. this will be autogenerated if Supergloo installs Linkerd2 for you.

```yaml
"installation_namespace": string
"watch_namespaces": [string]
"prometheus_configmap": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| installation_namespace | string | which namespace is linkerd2 installed to? |  |
| watch_namespaces | [string] | the namespaces linkerd2 is watching for its crd-based configuration. leave empty if linkerd2 install is cluster-wide |  |
| prometheus_configmap | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](mesh.proto.sk.md#Linkerd2) | if provided, this will give Supergloo a reference to the prometheus configuration associated with this linkerd2 install if empty, Supergloo will look for the configmap `linkerd.prometheus` |  |
  
### <a name="Consul">Consul</a>

Description: configuration for an consul mesh. this will be autogenerated if Supergloo installs Consul for you.

```yaml
"installation_namespace": string
"server_address": string
"prometheus_configmap": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| installation_namespace | string | which namespace is consul instatlled to? |  |
| server_address | string | address of the consul api server |  |
| prometheus_configmap | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](mesh.proto.sk.md#Consul) | if provided, this will give Supergloo a reference to the prometheus configuration associated with this consul install if empty, Supergloo will look for the configmap `linkerd.prometheus` |  |
  
### <a name="AppMesh">AppMesh</a>

Description: configuration for an AWS AppMesh mesh.

```yaml
"aws_region": string
"aws_credentials": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |----------- | 
| aws_region | string | the region where this mesh should be deployed |  |
| aws_credentials | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](mesh.proto.sk.md#AppMesh) | ref to a Secret containing aws credentials |  |
